---
title: .keyboard_info 2.0 Specification
---

This file is generated by the compiler and provides metadata for a keyboard. It
is a JSON file, with the following members. The **.keyboard_info** file will be
used primarily by Keyman Cloud Services. During CI deployment, it will be built
from the source package and keyboard metadata, and pushed with the compiled
resources to the download store.

### KeyboardInfo Object

* `id`

  `string`, the same as the name of the folder, lower case. In the **release/**
  folder, this name must be a valid Javascript identifier, and follow the rules
  in the [Keyboard Cloud Repository
  documentation](https://help.keyman.com/developer/keyboards).

  **Example:** `"id": "fv_blackfoot"`

  **Generation:** from folder name.

* `name`

  `string`, the human readable name of the keyboard. This will usually differ
  from the id.

  **Generation:** from .kmp info, package name. If a .kmp is not included, it is
  sourced from the .js with a regular expression.

* `authorName`

  `string`, the name of the author

  **Generation:** from .kmp info

* `authorEmail`

  `string`, the email address of the author

  **Generation:** from .kmp info

* `description`

  `string`, a textual description of the keyboard. This may contain some minimal
  HTML (p, b, i, u, span, a, ul, ol, li, br, hr, h1-h4 tags).

  **Generation:** from .kmp info

* `license`

  `string`, the possible values for **license** vary by location in the
  repository:

  * **release/** and **experimental/** keyboards must be `"mit"`.
  * **legacy/** keyboards will be `"freeware"`, `"shareware"` or `"commercial"`.

  **Generation:** from LICENSE.md

* `languages`

  **object**; an object with its member names being BCP 47 codes and values
  being **KeyboardLanguageInfo** objects.

  **Generation:** From .kmp info.

* `lastModifiedDate`

  `string`, the last time the keyboard was modified, in RFC3339, UTC
  `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss[.nnn]Z`

  **Generation:** the time that the .keyboard_info file is generated

* `packageFilename`

  `string`, filename of the .kmp file that will be distributed, e.g.
  `"khmer_angkor.kmp"`.

  **Generation:** always `_id_.kmp`.

* `packageFileSize`

  `number`, size in bytes of the .kmp file that will be distributed.

  **Generation:** From .kmp.

* `jsFilename`

  `string`, filename of the .js file that will be distributed, e.g.
  `"gff_amh.js"`.

  **Generation:** always `_id_.js`.

* `jsFileSize`

  `number`, size in bytes of the .js file that will be distributed.

  **Generation:** From .js.

* `isRTL`

  `boolean`, true if the .js keyboard should be right-to-left.

  **Generation:** From .kmx, .js.

* `encodings`

  `array`, of up to 2 `string`s, `"unicode"` and/or `"ansi"`.

  **Generation:** from .kmx, .js.

* `packageIncludes`

  `array`, of `string`s. Metadata used mostly by legacy keyboards. This flags
  whether a package includes:

  *   `"fonts"` - one or more fonts
  *   `"documentation"` - documentation, in PDF, RTF or HTML format, excluding
      welcome.htm and readme
  *   `"visualKeyboard"` - a KVK file
  *   `"welcome"` - a welcome.htm file

  **Generation:** from .kmp

* `version`

  `string`, the file version of the keyboard / package.

  **Generation:** from .kmp, .js. If no version number is present in the
  compiled file, assumes `"1.0"`

* `minKeymanVersion`

  `string`. The minimum version of Keyman that can read this keyboard. If
  present, must be a two part version string, starting from `"6.0"` and up.
  Note: for versions below 10.0, this value is used in KeymanWeb, but the
  version mapping is based on Keyman Desktop version numbers. For versions 10.0
  and above, all platforms have a synchronized version number. See [KeymanWeb
  Versioning](/developer/cloud/versioning) for more detail.

  **Generation:** from .kmp, .js.

* `helpLink`

  `string`. If present, the link to this keyboard's help page on
  help.keyman.com.

  **Generation:** if **_id_/source/help/_id_.php** exists.

* `platformSupport`

  A [**KeyboardPlatformInfo**] object.

  **Generation:** from .kmp

* `sourcePath`

  `string`, the relative path of the keyboard in the /keymanapp/keyboards GitHub
  repository, starting with `release/`, `experimental/` or `legacy/`.

  **Generation:** from path in repository.

* `related`

  **object**, with each property an id of a keyboard and corresponding value is
  a **KeyboardRelatedInfo**.

  **Generation:** from .kmp

* `deprecated`

  `boolean`, true if the keyboard has been deprecated.

  **Generation:** Always generated from related keyboards, currently only
  visible on api.keyman.com/search.

### KeyboardLanguageInfo Object

* `font`

  [**KeyboardFontInfo**] object containing information about a recommended
  display font for use with text produced by the keyboard.

  **Generation:** This will be generated automatically from the .kmp file.

* `oskFont`

  [**KeyboardFontInfo**] object containing information about a recommended
  font for use with the on screen keyboard. If not present, uses `font`.
  If both are not present, then Keyman uses the default system font.

  **Generation:** This will be generated automatically from the .kmp file.

* `examples`

  Array of [**KeyboardExampleInfo**] objects containing sample text that the user
  can type to give them an idea of how to start to use the keyboard. This replaces
  `example` field from version 1.0, and is less restrictive in its set of allowed
  key identifiers.

  **Generation:** This will be generated automatically from the .kmp file.

* `displayName`

  `string`, a descriptive name of the language to display to users in
  the format: *language (script, region)*. If the BCP 47 code does not
  contain script or region subtags, only the language name is displayed.

  **Example:**
  `"displayName": "Central Atlas Tamazight (Tifinagh, Morocco)"`

  **Generation:** This will be generated automatically from the BCP 47
  code.

* `languageName`

  `string`, the name of the language subtag in the BCP 47 code.

  **Example:** `"languageName": "Central Atlas Tamazight"`

  **Generation:** This will be generated automatically from the BCP 47
  code.

* `scriptName`

  `string`, the name of the script subtag in the BCP 47 code.

  **Example:** `"scriptName": "Tifinagh"`

  **Generation:** This will be generated automatically from the BCP 47
  code.

* `regionName`

  `string`, the name of the region subtag in the BCP 47 code.

  **Example:** `"regionName": "Morocco"`

  **Generation:** This will be generated automatically from the BCP 47
  code.

### KeyboardPlatformInfo Object

* `windows`, `macos`, `desktopWeb`, `ios`, `android`, `mobileWeb`, `linux` members

  `string`, for all members: one of `"dictionary"`, `"full"`, `"basic"`, or
  `"none"`. If member is missing, `"none"`.

  * `"dictionary"`: keyboard includes dictionary, e.g. IME or
    suggestion/autocompletion support.
  * `"full"`: keyboard is designed and optimised for the platform, and works
    well with it.
  * `"basic"`: keyboard compiles for the platform but has not been optimised for
    it (e.g. a Windows keyboard compiled to web, with no touch-specific support,
    will still work on a touch platform but will have a desktop-shaped touch
    keyboard with too many keys on it).
  * `"none"`: keyboard does not work on the platform

### KeyboardFontInfo Object

* `family`

  `string`, family name of the font; can be used by Keyman Engine to locate an
  already installed font of the same name.

* `source`

  `string[]`, 1 or more filenames, relative to .keyboard_info file.

### KeyboardExampleInfo Object

* `keys`

  `string`, a list of keystrokes to type to produce a short sample text using
  this keyboard, space-separated. Modifiers indicated with "+". Spacebar with
  "space". Plus key with "plus". This is not intended to give a full description
  of the keyboard but rather a simple example that introduces the user to the
  way the keyboard works.

* `text`

  `string`, the result of the keystrokes typed, i.e. a Unicode string.

* `note`

  `string`, a text note that helps to explain the example to the user.

### KeyboardRelatedInfo Object

* `deprecates`

  `boolean`, if **true**, then this keyboard is intended to deprecate another
  keyboard with the parent member name, and Keyman will upgrade it to this
  keyboard if found, ignoring version numbers.

* `deprecatedBy`

  `boolean`, if **true**, then this keyboard has been deprecated by the keyboard
  referred to. This member will be returned only from queries to api.keyman.com.

### Schema

A validating schema for the object is online at
<https://api.keyman.com/schemas/keyboard_info.schema.json>.

### Generation

The kmc compiler generates the .keyboard_info file from the package and keyboard
metadata, into the build/ folder.

### Examples

The following is a reasonably comprehensive example .keyboard_info file
for a Tibetan keyboard.

```js
{
  "id" : "tibetan_unicode_direct_input",
  "name" : "Tibetan Unicode Direct Input",
  "description" : "Tibetan Unicode Direct Input is designed to type all Tibetan characters and stacks directly. You get a Tibetan character every time you press a key, without having to use the Alt key or complex transliteration combinations. The keyboard types in a phonetic style based on the English (QWERTY) layout.\r\n\r\nThis keyboard also features special menus for Tibetan symbols and lets you type Latin and Cyrillic letters. ",
  "jsFilename" : "tibetan_unicode_direct_input-1.1.js",
  "packageFilename" : "tibetan_unicode_direct_input.kmp",
  "authorEmail" : "linguasoft@surfeu.at",
  "platformSupport" : {
    "desktopWeb" : "full",
    "ios" : "basic",
    "android" : "basic"
  },
  "minKeymanVersion" : "7.0",
  "packageIncludes" : [
    "fonts",
    "documentation",
    "visualKeyboard",
    "welcome"
    ],
  "version" : "1.1",
  "license" : "mit",
  "languages" : {
    "adi" : {
      "font" : {
        "family" : "TibetanWeb",
        "source" : ["DDC_Uchen.ttf"]
      },
      "oskFont" : {
        "family" : "TibetanWebOsk",
        "source" : [
          "DDC_Uchen.ttf",
          "ddc_uchen-webfont.svg#ddc_uchenregular"
          ]
      }
    },
    "bod" : {
      "font" : {
        "family" : "TibetanWeb",
        "source" : ["DDC_Uchen.ttf"]
      },
      "oskFont" : {
        "family" : "TibetanWebOsk",
        "source" : [
          "DDC_Uchen.ttf",
          "ddc_uchen-webfont.svg#ddc_uchenregular"
          ]
      },
      "examples" : [{
        "keys" : "b o d space s K d",
        "text" : "\u0F56\u0F7C\u0F51\u0F0B\u0F66\u0F90\u0F51",
        "note" : "Name of language"
      }]
    }
  },
  "lastModifiedDate" : "2015-02-16T07:34:55Z",
  "encodings" : [
    "unicode"
    ],
  "related" : {
    "tibetan unicode direct input" : {
      "deprecates" : true
    }
  }
}
```

### Version History

1.0, 2017-09-14

: Initial version

1.0.1, 2018-01-31

: Add file sizes, isRTL, sourcePath fields so we can supply these to
  the legacy KeymanWeb Cloud API endpoints. Remove references to .kmx
  being a valid package format.

1.0.2, 2018-02-10

: Add dictionary to platform support choices. Fixed default for
  platform to 'none'.

1.0.3, 2018-02-12

: Renamed minKeymanDesktopVersion to minKeymanVersion to clarify that
  this version information applies to all platforms.

1.0.4, 2018-11-26

: Add helpLink field that contains the link to a keyboard help page on
  help.keyman.com.

1.0.5, 2018-12-18

: Deprecate languages\[\] array. Update KeyboardLanguageInfo object to
  include subtag names.

1.0.6, 2019-09-06

: No changes (originally in
  [\#36](https://github.com/keymanapp/help.keyman.com/pull/36) removed
  some unused fields but these are still in use. Reverted in
  2020-06-10.).

2.0, 2023-08-16

: A number of changes, in order to simplify the format and make it 100%
  generated from .kmp metadata. This also means the distinction between
  keyboard_info.source.json and keyboard_info.distribution.json has been
  removed, and the schema file is now called keyboard_info.schema.json. The
  following changes have been made to the JSON structure:

  * Removed `legacyId`, `documentationFilename`, `documentationFileSize`,
    `links`, `related[].note`, `language.[osk]font.size` fields
  * `language.[osk]font.source` is now always an `array`.
  * `language.examples` replaces `language.example`, and structure has been
    simplified
