<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@keymanapp/kmc-model](./kmc-model.md) &gt; [LexicalModelSource](./kmc-model.lexicalmodelsource.md)

## LexicalModelSource interface

Base interface for a lexical model source definition

**Signature:**

```typescript
export interface LexicalModelSource extends LexicalModelDeclaration 
```
**Extends:** LexicalModelDeclaration

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[applyCasing?](./kmc-model.lexicalmodelsource.applycasing.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

CasingFunction


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ Specifies the casing rules for a language. Should implement three casing forms: - 'lower' -- a fully-lowercased version of the text appropriate for the language's use of the writing system. - 'upper' -- a fully-uppercased version of the text - 'initial' -- a version preserving the input casing aside from the initial character, which is uppercased (like with proper nouns and sentence-initial words in English sentences.)

This is only utilized if `languageUsesCasing` is defined and set to `true`<!-- -->.  14.0


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[languageUsesCasing?](./kmc-model.lexicalmodelsource.languageusescasing.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ When set to `true`<!-- -->, suggestions will attempt to match the case of the input text even if the lexicon entries use a different casing scheme due to search term keying effects.  14.0


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[punctuation?](./kmc-model.lexicalmodelsource.punctuation.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

LexicalModelPunctuation


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ Punctuation and spacing suggested by the model.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[rootClass?](./kmc-model.lexicalmodelsource.rootclass.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ The name of the type to instantiate (without parameters) as the base object for a custom predictive model.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[searchTermToKey?](./kmc-model.lexicalmodelsource.searchtermtokey.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

[WordformToKeySpec](./kmc-model.wordformtokeyspec.md)


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ How to simplify words, to convert them into simplified search keys This often involves removing accents, lowercasing, etc.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[sources](./kmc-model.lexicalmodelsource.sources.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

Array&lt;string&gt;


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[wordBreaker?](./kmc-model.lexicalmodelsource.wordbreaker.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

[WordBreakerSpec](./kmc-model.wordbreakerspec.md) \| [SimpleWordBreakerSpec](./kmc-model.simplewordbreakerspec.md)


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ Which word breaker to use. Choose from:

- 'default' -- breaks according to Unicode UAX \#29 ยง4.1 Default Word Boundary Specification, which works well for \*most\* languages. - 'ascii' -- a very simple word breaker, for demonstration purposes only. - word breaking function -- provide your own function that breaks words. - class-based word-breaker - may be supported in the future.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

