<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@keymanapp/kmc-analyze](./kmc-analyze.md) &gt; [AnalyzeOskCharacterUse](./kmc-analyze.analyzeoskcharacteruse.md)

## AnalyzeOskCharacterUse class

Analyze the characters used in On Screen Keyboard files (.kvks, .keyman-touch-layout) for use with `&displayMap`<!-- -->.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare class AnalyzeOskCharacterUse 
```

## Constructors

<table><thead><tr><th>

Constructor


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[(constructor)(callbacks, options)](./kmc-analyze.analyzeoskcharacteruse._constructor_.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Constructs a new instance of the `AnalyzeOskCharacterUse` class


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Methods

<table><thead><tr><th>

Method


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[analyze(file)](./kmc-analyze.analyzeoskcharacteruse.analyze.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Analyzes a single source file for Unicode character usage. Can parse .kmn, .kvks, .keyman-touch-layout file formats. Can be called multiple times to collect results from more than one file. Use [AnalyzeOskCharacterUse.getStrings()](./kmc-analyze.analyzeoskcharacteruse.getstrings.md) to retrieve results.

Note: `analyze()` collects key cap data, so calling this for a .kmn file will retrieve the key caps from the .kvks and .keyman-touch-layout files that it references, rather than key cap data from the .kmn file itself.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[clear()](./kmc-analyze.analyzeoskcharacteruse.clear.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Clears analysis data collected from previous calls to [AnalyzeOskCharacterUse.analyze()](./kmc-analyze.analyzeoskcharacteruse.analyze.md)


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getStrings(format)](./kmc-analyze.analyzeoskcharacteruse.getstrings.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Returns the collected results from earlier calls to [AnalyzeOskCharacterUse.analyze()](./kmc-analyze.analyzeoskcharacteruse.analyze.md)<!-- -->. This generates a mapping from a key cap (one or more characters) to a PUA code, for use with `&displayMap`<!-- -->.

Three output formats are supported:

- .txt: tab-separated string format, with three columns: PUA, Key Cap, and plain string. The PUA and Key Cap columns are formatted as Unicode Scalar Values, e.g. U+0061, and the plain string is the original key cap string.

- .md: formatted for documentation purposes. Generates a Markdown table (GFM) with PUA, Key Cap, and plain string. The PUA and Key Cap columns are formatted as Unicode Scalar Values, e.g. U+0061, and the plain string is the original key cap string.

- .json: returns the final aggregated data as an array of strings, which can be joined to form a JSON blob of an object with a single member, `map`<!-- -->, which is an array of  objects.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

