# Using the Keyman Desktop User Interface Editor to translate the Keyman Desktop User Interface

### **NOTE**: This archived documentation has not been updated recently and may contain information that is no longer relevant


<p>An unsupported tool is available to assist in editing the Keyman Desktop User Interface.  This tool, the User Interface Editor, removes the complexity of editing the XML file by hand.</p>

<h2>Download</h2>

<p>uieditor70.exe is no longer available for download.</p>

<h2>Guide</h2>

<p>A brief guide to using the editor:</p>

<ul>

<li>Find the locale for your language code:<br />Use the <a href="http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/" target="_blank">ISO 639-2</a> or 
          <a href="http://www.sil.org/iso639-3/" target="_blank">ISO 639-3</a> language code (we recommend using the 
          ISO 639-3 codes as many Keyman keyboards support languages not included in ISO 639-2!).</li>

<li>Use the entities (placeholders beginning with <b>&amp;</b> and ending with <b>;</b>) below to make the user interface consistent between different editions of Keyman Desktop:
<table class='display'>
 <tr><td>&amp;Company;</td><td>Name of company ('Tavultesoft')</td></tr>
 <tr><td>&amp;ProductName;</td><td>Name of product ('Keyman Desktop')</td></tr>
 <tr><td>&amp;Edition;</td><td>Edition of product ('Professional')</td></tr>
 <tr><td>&amp;Version;</td><td>Version number of product ('7.0')</td></tr>
  
 <tr><td>&amp;EvaluationPeriod;</td><td>Number of days in evaluation (informative only)</td></tr>
  
 <tr><td>&amp;Name;</td><td>Product Name ('Keyman Desktop')</td></tr>
 <tr><td>&amp;Name_CNV;</td><td>Company, Product Name, and Version ('Tavultesoft Keyman Desktop 7.0')</td></tr>
 <tr><td>&amp;Name_CN;</td><td>Company and Product Name ('Tavultesoft Keyman Desktop')</td></tr>
 <tr><td>&amp;Name_NV;</td><td>Product Name and Version ('Keyman Desktop 7.0')</td></tr>
</table>
</li>

<li>First, edit the file's language information - <b>SKUILanguageName</b>, <b>SKUILanguageNameWithEnglish</b>, and <b>SKLanguageCode</b>:

<ul><li>The <b>SKLanguageCode</b> should be the same as the language code you chose earlier.</li>
<li>You will also see an String with id <b>SKDefaultLanguageCode</b>. For Keyman Desktop, this should remain "en" for all translations.</li>
<li><b>SKUILanguageNameWithEnglish</b> should be something like "Français (French)".</li>
<li><b>SKUILanguageName</b> should be just the name of the language: "Français".</li>
</ul>
</li>

<li>You can test your user interface file by saving it to: <b>C:\Program Files\Tavultesoft\Keyman Desktop Professional 7.0\locale\(your locale code)\locale.xml</b></li>

<li>When you have finished creating your locale file, save it, and send it to Tavultesoft for inclusion in the next update of Keyman Desktop.</li>

</ul>

<h2>Further Information</h2>

<p>More information on the locale file format is available in <a href='http://tavultesoft.com/keyman/documentation/70/ref_locale.html'>Keyman Desktop Reference Documentation</a>.</p>


## Applies to:
 * Keyman Desktop Light 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop Professional 7.0
