# You receive a "Unable to copy file (filename) to (folder) - you may have insufficient privileges, or you may have run out of disk space" message when installing a keyboard

### **NOTE**: This archived documentation has not been updated recently and may contain information that is no longer relevant


## Symptoms

When you install a keyboard or a package for Keyman Desktop 7.0, you may receive one of the following error messages:

> Unable to copy file _(filename)_ for the package to _(path)_- you may have insufficient privileges, or you may have run out of disk space.
> 
> Unable to copy file _(filename)_to _(path)_- you may have insufficient privileges, or you may have run out of disk space.

## Cause
This error can occur when a corrupted keyboard installation has been left on the computer.

## Resolution
To resolve this issue, you must delete the corrupted keyboard from your computer. Take a note of the _path_ given in the error message.

1. Click **Start** menu, **Run** (on Windows Vista, hold Windows key and press R)
2. Enter the path given in the error message and press OK.
3. In Explorer, navigate to the parent folder and delete the folder you originally navigated to.


For instance, if the folder given was **C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Tavultesoft\Keyman Engine 7.0\Keyboard\Greek**, then you would delete the folder **Greek** and all its contents from the **C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Tavultesoft\Keyman Engine 7.0\Keyboard** folder.

## Applies to:
* Keyman Desktop Corporate 7.0
* Keyman Desktop Light 7.0
* Keyman Desktop Professional 7.0
