# HOWTO: Run Debugging in Keyman for Windows and Firefox

Keyman Support may ask you to run debugging in Keyman Desktop or Keyman Developer. The debug report assists us in resolving complex support issues. Please follow the steps below to generate the debug report.

> [!WARNING]  
> <ins>*Everything*</ins> you type or click on your computer while running debugging will be visible (including passwords) when we review the debug files. We strongly recommend only running debugging during the test, and immediately turning it off after the test is finished.

1. Start Keyman Configuration.
2. Select the Options tab.
3. Tick 'Debugging' and click <kbd>OK</kbd> to confirm.
4. Exit Keyman Desktop and Keyman Developer, if they are running, as well as any application where you need to demonstrate the problem.
5. Restart Keyman Desktop and the target application.
6. Demonstrate the problem you are having.
7. After the problem is sufficiently demonstrated, exit Keyman Desktop.
8. Open Keyman Configuration, and untick 'Debugging' from the Options tab.
9. Click the Windows Search box, and type "%localappdata%\keyman\diag" and press enter.
10. Send us a copy of your debug file(s). You'll find them, in the folder above, named system##.etl or system##.log (where ## is a number).
11. Please include notes to us about the issue, including what you typed, what output you expected to get (if possible!), and the results you actually received.

## Capture a log in Firefox

#### These steps are for debugging the issues that are reproducible using Firefox.

1) Open a testcase in a tab, e.g. Google Docs or Sheets, Website with issue

2) Open and write `about:logging` in another tab 

3) Choose “Logging to a file” radio button and type a path to save the log into the text field, then, press “Set Log File” button

4) Set “New log modules:” field to KeyboardHandler:4,IMEHandler:4,sync and click “Set Log Module” button.

5) If you see “Start logging” button in top of the page, click it.

6) Go back to the tab loaded with the testcase using the mouse

7) Do the minimum steps to reproduce the bug

8) Go back to the tab loaded `about:logging` with mouse

9) Click the “Stop logging” button

10) The Log file is available the path set above.

> [!NOTE]
> Please only perform send Keyman Support a log file if we request it. We don't have the resources to review unsolicited log files!

## Applies to:
* Keyman for Windows 14.0+
* Keyman Desktop 10.0 - 13.0
* Keyman Developer 10.0+
