# HOWTO: Enable or Disable Serialised Input in Keyman Desktop (Windows)

## Background

When Keyman is running, it controls the keyboard input queue in Windows in order to guarantee the sequence of events. You should not normally need to change this behaviour; however it is possible to switch off the control of the keyboard input queue if you suspect a conflict with another utility. [Learn more...](https://blog.keyman.com/2018/10/the-keyman-keyboard-input-pipeline/)

---

**Important:** This article contains information about how to modify the registry. Make sure that you back up the registry before you modify it. Make sure that you know how to restore the registry if a problem occurs. For more information about how to back up, restore, and modify the registry, click the following article number to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:

* [http://support.microsoft.com/kb/256986/](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/256986/) Description of the Microsoft Windows registry.

---

**Warning:** Serious problems might occur if you modify the registry incorrectly by using Registry Editor or by using another method. These problems might require that you reinstall the operating system. We cannot guarantee that these problems can be solved. Modify the registry at your own risk.

---

## Disable Serialised Input

1. Start Registry Editor (regedit.exe)
2. Navigate to `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Keyman\Keyman Engine`
3. Select **Edit/New/Key** and name the key `Debug`.
4. Select the new `Debug` key, and select **Edit/New/DWORD value** and name the value `Flag_ShouldSerializeInput`. It will be created with the default value `0`.
5. Exit and restart Keyman (you may need to restart Windows).

---

## Enable Serialised Input

1. Start Registry Editor (regedit.exe)
2. Navigate to `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Keyman\Keyman Engine\Debug`
3. Delete the value `Flag_ShouldSerializeInput`.
5. Exit and restart Keyman (you may need to restart Windows).