# My antivirus or security software reports Keyman is a potential key logger, trojan or spyware

### **NOTE**: This archived documentation has not been updated recently and may contain information that is no longer relevant


<p><b>Most importantly, Keyman is not a trojan, key logger, or spyware.</b></p>

<p><b>Tavultesoft do not and will never engage in deceptive software practices, such as spyware, malware, viruses
or trojans.</b></p>

<p>Keyman uses advanced technology to remap your keyboard by trapping keystrokes as they are typed.  Unfortunately,
some spyware applications use the same basic method of trapping keystrokes as Keyman.  Understandably, some security
software companies have decided to warn their users when they are using a program that traps keystrokes.  This then
means that Keyman is falsely identified as spyware by some security software.</p>

<p>Tavultesoft are working with antivirus and security software companies to remedy this.  If you come across this
situation, please contact Tavultesoft, at sales@tavultesoft.com, with details of the antivirus or security
program that is causing the problem, and we will contact the developer of that software in order to come to a resolution.</p>

<p>Keyman never transmits any data about what you type from your computer.  There are two modules in Keyman that include
Internet awareness:
<ul><li><b>Automatic Software Updates:</b> Periodically, Keyman checks online at our website for an updated version.  Keyman
does not send any personally identifiable details in this process.  Keyman sends only the following details to the website:
  <ul><li>The application name - e.g. Keyman or Keyman Developer</li>
  <li>The current version you are running</li></ul>

The format of the request is as follows:<br>
<blockquote>http://www.tavultesoft.com/prog/updatecheck.php?Application=<i>ApplicationName</i>&Version=<i>version</i></blockquote>
If you would prefer not to have Keyman check for updates automatically, you can turn off automatic updates in the
Options tab of Keyman Configuration.<br><br></li>

<li><b>Diagnostics:</b> Keyman Configuration includes a diagnostic tool that you can use in order to track down conflicts
if they occur.  The diagnostic tool collects a number of details about your computer, and presents them on-screen.  You can
then choose to send these details to Tavultesoft for further assistance.  The details of the report include the basic
hardware configuration of your computer, the current configuration of Keyman, a list of currently running applications,
a list of applications that are configured to start with Windows, and details about which languages you have installed
in Windows.  This system information report will never be sent to Tavultesoft without your express approval.
Tavultesoft Pty Ltd will keep this system information report confidential and will destroy it upon request.
</li>
</ul>

<p>Please also see our <a href='https://keyman.com/privacy'>Privacy Policy</a> for further information.</p>


## Applies to:
* Keyman 5.0
* Keyman 6.0
* Keyman 6.2
