# HOWTO: Resolve errors when installing Keyman

### **NOTE**: This archived documentation has not been updated recently and may contain information that is no longer relevant


<ol>

<li>Check that your system is free of viruses and spyware.  Both of these can cause problems with installing Keyman.</li>
<li>Ensure you have enough disk space to install Keyman.</li>
<li>If you receive an error about Keyman being corrupt, your certificates that verify software authenticity may have
been corrupted or deleted.  This is usually caused by spyware (see point 1 above).</li>

<li>If you are running Keyman 6.2.175.0 or earlier, the following procedure will usually
correct corrupted Root Certificates:

<ol><li>Visit the following website:<br>
  <a href='http://www.thawte.com/roots/'>http://www.thawte.com/roots/</a></li>
<li>After filling in the form there, you will download a file called thawte-roots.zip.</li>
<li>You must first extract this file to a temporary folder (for example, using WinZip).</li>
<li>In the temporary folder, you will find 3 certificate files and 2 folders.</li>

<li>Double click on the first certificate file in the folder.</li>
<li>Click the Install Certificate button, then click Next.</li>
<li>Click "Place all certificates in the following store", click Browse, and select "Trusted Root Certification Authorities".</li>
<li>Click Next, then Finish, then click Yes to install the certificate.</li>
<li>Repeat steps 5-8 for each of the other two certificates.</li>
<li>Finally, open the folder "Thawte Server Roots", and follow steps 5-8 for the files "ThawtePremiumServerCA.cer" and
"ThawteServerCA.cer".  These files have an icon that looks like a certificate.</li>
</ol>
</li>

<li>If you are running Keyman 6.2.176.0 or later, or version 7.0, the following procedure will usually
correct corrupted Root Certificates:

<ol><li>Visit the following website:<br>
  <a href='http://www.verisign.com/support/roots.html'>http://www.verisign.com/support/roots.html</a></li>
<li>After filling in the form there, you will download a file called roots.zip.</li>
<li>You must first extract this file to a temporary folder (for example, using WinZip).</li>
<li>In the temporary folder, you will find several .cer certificate files.  We are interested in class 3 (e.g. C3_PCA_G3v2.cer or similar).</li>

<li>Double click on the certificate file in the folder.</li>
<li>Click the Install Certificate button, then click Next.</li>
<li>Click "Place all certificates in the following store", click Browse, and select "Trusted Root Certification Authorities".</li>
<li>Click Next, then Finish, then click Yes to install the certificate.</li>
<li>Repeat steps 5-8 for any of the other certificates that appear to be Class 3 certificates.</li>
</ol>
</li>

<li>You may also need to re-register some or all of the following system files depending on your version of Windows: softpub.dll, wintrust.dll, initpki.dll, ssenh.dll, saenh.dll, gpkcsp.dll, sccbase.dll, slbcsp.dll, mssip32.dll, cryptdlg.dll

To do this:
<ol><li>Run the command prompt ('command' in Windows 98, 'cmd' in Windows 2000/XP)
<li>Enter the following for each of the above files: <b>regsvr32 <i>dll name</i></b> where <i>dll name</i> is the name of the dll to re-register.
</ol>

## Applies to:
 * Keyman 6.0
 * Keyman 6.2
