# You receive a message "Unable to find valid installed product."

### **NOTE**: This archived documentation has not been updated recently and may contain information that is no longer relevant

## Background

If you are in an environment where the typical user has a roaming account and uses computers that are frequently rebuilt, you may find that Keyman does not start when you login to the computer.  You may receive an error message stating "Unable to find valid installed product."

In this situation, when you start Keyman Desktop from the Desktop or Start Menu shortcut, you will see a Windows Installer progress dialog appear briefly before Keyman Desktop starts successfully.

## Details

This issue occurs because the registry enter to start Keyman with Windows does not run the Windows Installer automatic configuration, as the shortcuts on the Start Menu and Desktop do.  Windows Installer will automatically configure Keyman Desktop for a user profile when Keyman is first started in those circumstances.

## How to fix this problem

First, try to repair the product by starting Control Panel, Add/Remove Programs, finding the Tavultesoft Keyman Desktop 7.0 entry and selecting "Change" or "Repair".

## Alternative Workaround

> **Warning!** Problems caused by improperly editing the Windows registry could render your computer operating system unusable. Microsoft provides a wealth of critical information that you need to know about the registry in the [Microsoft Knowledge Base](http://support.microsoft.com/support).  
Use the Microsoft Registry Editor only at your own risk.

Replace the registry entry titled **'desktop_light.pxx'**, **'desktop_pro.pxx'**, or **'desktop_corp.pxx'** in `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run` with a reference to a batch file or script with the following commands:

### Keyman Desktop Light

``` php
@echo off
msiexec /fu /qn {FA684353-85D7-416a-9394-1279AAFE0A85}
"%ProgramFiles%\Tavultesoft\Keyman Desktop Light 7.0\kmshell.exe"
```

### Keyman Desktop Professional

``` php
@echo off
msiexec /fu /qn {9FFA5AC0-21BC-4495-8FE0-F6B86954F507}
"%ProgramFiles%\Tavultesoft\Keyman Desktop Professional 7.0\kmshell.exe"
```

### Keyman Desktop Corporate

``` php
@echo off
msiexec /fu /qn {24F2A606-3D81-4fc6-BBBC-AE48ED128F74}
"%ProgramFiles%\Tavultesoft\Keyman Desktop Corporate 7.0\kmshell.exe"
```

## Future Versions

A future version of Keyman Desktop will detect this issue and try to automatically configure Keyman Desktop for the user.  At time of writing, this issue was present in version 7.1.254.0.

## Applies to:
 * Keyman Desktop Corporate 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop Light 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop Professional 7.0