# FIX: Flashing Blue 'NONE' Interrupting Keyman

### **NOTE**: This archived documentation has not been updated recently and may contain information that is no longer relevant


<h2>Details</h2>

<p>If typing in Keyman is being interrupted by a flashing blue box that looks like the following:<br/><br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<span style='background:blue; color:white; font:serif'><b><i>None</i></b></span><br/><br/>
and you are using a Lenovo computer, you should disable the program <b>Conexant Smart Audo</b> (misspelled as such) from your startup applications. This program conflicts with Keyman.</p>

<p>There may be an update available for Conexant Smart Audo that resolves this problem.  Contact your computer manufacturer to check for updates.</p>

<h2>How to Remove Conexant Smart Audo Using Autoruns</h2>

<p>We highly recommend removing applications from Windows startup using the freely downloadable <b>Autoruns</b> program from Microsoft.</p> 

<ol>
  <li>Download and install the program <a target="_blank" href='http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb963902.aspx'>Autoruns</a>.</li>
  <li>Open <b>Autoruns</b>.</li>
  <li>Select the Everything tab.</li>
  <li>Find <b>Conexant Smart Audo</b> in the list of startup programs and uncheck or delete it.</li>
</ol>

<h2>How to Remove Conexant Using MSConfig</h2>

<p>You may also use this method to remove <b>Conexant</b> from startup.</p>

<ol>
  <li>For Windows Vista or Windows 7, type 'msconfig' in the Start menu search box and press enter. For Windows XP, open <b>Run</b> from the Start menu, type 'msconfig' and click OK.</li>
  <li>Select the Startup tab.</li>
  <li>Find <b>Conexant Smart Audo</b> in the list of startup programs and uncheck it.</li>
  <li>Click OK.</li>
</ol>

## Applies to:
 * Keyman Desktop Light 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop Professional 7.0
