# Tavultesoft Activation Server 1.0 Beta

### **NOTE**: This archived documentation has not been updated recently and may contain information that is no longer relevant

The Tavultesoft Activation Server provides centralised management of all Tavultesoft software product
licences and activation.  The complete package consists of two components: a service component that runs
on a server all the time (tsactsrv), and a client component that is run on each client workstation with
installed Tavultesoft software (tsactclt).

The service component is managed primarily through a web interface.  This means it can be managed from
any client PC.  The client component is a command line program that will usually be run when the user
logs into the workstation.

These components are intended for use within a broader deployment scenario.  Typically, you will
deploy a Keyman Desktop or other Tavultesoft software image using Group Policy or another software
deployment tool.  You can then use the Activation Server to manage the licencing of the software.

## Benefits

  - Reduce the administration and management effort for managing Tavultesoft software.
  - Control the use and availability of your software licences.
  - Use the reports available in the web management interface for software licence audits.
  - End users never need to see any activation details or even know the licence keys for the software.

## Activation Server Home Page

Activation Server Home Page (No longer available)

## Applies to:
 * Keyman Desktop Corporate 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop Light 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop Professional 7.0
 * Keyman Developer Branding Pack 7.0
 * Keyman Developer KeymanWeb Pack 7.0
 * Keyman Developer Professional 7.0