# FIX: After downgrading from Keyman Desktop 9 to Keyman Desktop 8, Configuration fails to display

### **NOTE**: This archived documentation has not been updated recently and may contain information that is no longer relevant


<p>Keyman Desktop 9 asks the Internet Explorer renderer to put the screens into IE9 standards-compliant mode.  However, this breaks the Keyman Desktop 8 configuration screen, if you subsequently uninstall Keyman Desktop 9 and reinstall Keyman Desktop 8.</p>

<p>If you are experiencing this problem, you will see Keyman Configuration appearing with a blank screen -- no controls or keyboard layouts will be listed.</p>

<h2>Resolution</h2>

<p>We have developed a tool to automatically correct this problem. Download and run browser_renderer_settings_km8.exe, and click the Correct Browser Renderer Settings button to resolve the problem.</p>

<p>If you subsequently run Keyman Desktop 9, you will need to re-apply this process before installing Keyman Desktop 8.</p>

<p>browser_renderer_settings_km8.exe</p>

<h2>Manual Resolution</h2>

<p>The following steps require you to access the Windows Registry with a technical tool. You should backup your computer before proceeding, and we cannot take responsibility for use of this tool.</p>

<p>To resolve this, you'll need to delete the registry values "keyman.exe" and "kmshell.exe" in the following key:</p>

<p>HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Internet Explorer\Main\FeatureControl\FEATURE_BROWSER_EMULATION</p>

<p>Step-by-step:</p>

<ol>
<li>Click start, type regedit and press Enter.</li>
<li>When the Registry Editor appears, navigate in the tree down through HKEY_CURRENT_USER (right arrow to expand each tree node), to Software, Microsoft, Internet Explorer, Main, FeatureControl, FEATURE_BROWSER_EMULATION.</li>
<li>In the right hand pane, highlight the entries "keyman.exe" and "kmshell.exe", and press Del to delete.</li>
<li>There may also be an entry under FEATURE_NATIVE_DOCUMENT_MODE for kmshell.exe. If so, delete that kmshell.exe value as well.</li>
</ol>

## Applies to:
 * Keyman Desktop Light 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop Professional 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop 8.0
