# HOWTO: Download a single keyboard and shared fonts folder from the Keyboards repository

The Keyman keyboards repository is very large, and downloading the entire
repository may be time consuming and on unstable Internet connections, difficult
to achieve.

This KB article lists one possible way to download just a single keyboard folder. 
* First, locate the keyboard folder you wish to download from [Keyman's Keyboard Repository](https://github.com/keymanapp/keyboards/tree/master). we'll be downloading the SIL IPA keyboard at [Keyman's SIL IPA Keyboard folder](https://github.com/keymanapp/keyboards/tree/master/release/sil/sil_ipa).
* If the [shared font](https://github.com/keymanapp/keyboards/tree/master/release/shared/fonts/sil/charis) folder of the keyboard is required, it is possible to download it in the same steps.

## Use a website to download a ZIP file
The [download-directory • github • io](https://download-directory.github.io/) allows you to download a single folder from GitHub.
* Simply paste the keyboard folder into the form. For examples:
   * Keyboard folder: https://github.com/keymanapp/keyboards/tree/master/release/sil/sil_ipa
   * Shared font folder: https://github.com/keymanapp/keyboards/tree/master/release/shared/fonts/sil/charis
* Press Enter.

* This will download a ZIP file containing the folder which you can extract onto
your computer.

> [!Note]
> You may want to change the default name of the ZIP file ("keymanapp keyboards master release-sil_sil_ipa.zip" in this example) to something else ("sil_ipa.zip" for example) when downloading the file.

> [!Note]
> Also that attempting to download a large keyboard (or group of keyboards) may fail due to the large size.

## Folder Structure
When downloading both the keyboard and the fonts, you will want to duplicate the normal repository structure. For example, in the sil_ipa example, you would have a folder structure of `release/sil/sil_ipa` where you would put the contents of the keyboard zip file. Then you would need a folder called `release/shared/fonts/sil/charis` where you would put the contents of the font zip file.

Following this folder structure will allow your local build to work the same as in the Keyman build system.

## See also:
* Check [Keyman Cloud Keyboard Repository](/developer/keyboards/) for details on how to work with the Keyboards repository.