# INFO: Potential issues when upgrading to Keyman for Windows 14 with custom language profiles

When you upgrade to Keyman 14, some language tags may be modified to make them
canonical. In the vast majority of cases, this will cause no problems, and
Keyman and your apps will continue to work correctly. However, there is one
situation where you may need to take additional steps after upgrading to
complete the upgrade.

## Limits on number of custom language profiles

If you use 3 or 4 custom language profiles (known in Windows as transient
language profiles), those that Windows does not have built-in support for, and
any of those language profiles have a non-canonical BCP 47 language tag in
Keyman 13 or earlier, and you have a Windows keyboard also associated with those
language tagas, you may find that Keyman is unable to update all of the keyboard
language profiles when upgrading to version 14.

### Background

Keyman may be unable to update all language profiles because Windows has a limit
of 4 transient language profiles. If all of those are already in use, Keyman
will complete the upgrade, but you will need to open Keyman Configuration
yourself and decide which language profiles you wish to use. You may need to
remove other non-Keyman keyboard layouts in order to have sufficient spare
transient language profiles.

### Example

For example, you have installed four keyboards that have custom language
profiles with Keyman 13.

| Language code | Keyboard Name(s)
|---------------|---------------
| `tpi-Latn`    | Tok Pisin, US
| `und-Latn`    | SIL IPA
| `hbo-Hebr`    | Galaxie Hebrew Mnemonic
| `grc-Grek`    | Galaxie Greek Mnemonic

Note that as well as the Keyman 'Tok Pisin' keyboard, you have a Windows "US"
keyboard also associated with `tpi-Latn`.

After upgrading to Keyman 14, you find that you now have the following
keyboards:

| Language code | Keyboard Name
|---------------|---------------
| `tpi-Latn`    | US
| `und-Latn`    | SIL IPA
| `hbo-Hebr-IL` | Galaxie Hebrew Mnemonic
| `grc-Grek-GR` | Galaxie Greek Mnemonic

This has arisen because the upgrade tried to move the Tok Pisin keyboard from
`tpi-Latn` to `tpi-PG`, as the `tpi` language code should not specify the `Latn`
writing system according to canonicalization rules.

### Workaround

You can have up to 4 transient language codes in Windows. Choose the codes you
wish to use, remove the others, and you should be able to install the language
codes using Keyman Configuration's 'Add language' dialog box.

### See also

* [](/kb/116)
