# HOWTO: Installation of IBus and Keyman on Arch Linux and derivatives

## IBus

Problem with dependencies, such as:

> "installing pygobject-devel (3.32.1-1) breaks dependency 'pygobject-devel=3.30.4' required by python-gobject".

could be solved by upgrading the system:

```bash
sudo pacman -Syyu
```

**Notice:** any OS based on Arch Linux needs a regular full upgrade because of rolling release
concept.

Install IBus:

```bash
sudo pacman -S ibus kimtoy
```

Run KIMToy from the Application Launcher (use search field). It will add a new icon into the tray,
from its menu activate "Autostart", and in "Configure KIMToy" go to the IBus tab:

* activate "Run IBus at startup"
* field "Arguments" set to "-drx"

Log-out from the desktop session and log-in again (or restart computer).

Now IBus on itself should work, you could add another layout (e.g. Arabic) and test it in Libre
Office. If it does not work, read [Arch Linux Wiki][1].

## Keyman

Keyman is in the Arch User Repository (AUR). (KOSMOS does not provide tools to install applications from AUR, so you need another package manager, for example `pamac`):

```bash
sudo pacman -S vte3 itstool vala gobject-introspection

cd ~
wget https://aur.archlinux.org/cgit/aur.git/snapshot/pamac-aur.tar.gz
tar xvzf pamac-aur.tar.gz
cd pamac-aur
makepkg
makepkg -i
```

Run `pamac` from the Application Launcher (it is called "Add/Remove Software") or from console
(`pamac-manager`). Go to the Preference menu (button with 3 vertical dots in the upper right corner)
and activate "Enable AUR support". Return to the main window and search for "keyman", there should
be two applications, install them:

* keyman 11.0.122-1
* keyman-onboard 1.4.1

(Packages `kmflcomp`, `libkmfl`, `ibus-kmfl` belong to an old version of Keyman, ignore them.)

Several dependencies of Keyman are not included into KOSMOS system, install them also from `pamac`:

* python-numpy (Repositories)
* python-magic (AUR)
* python-requests-cache (AUR)

Now all Keyman's utilities should work. Search Application Launcher for "Keyman Keyboards"
(km-config) for installing required keyboards. Layout will be automatically added into IBus, if not —
restart IBus (right click on the icon in the tray).

[1]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/IBus#Initial_setup

(original version in <https://github.com/keymanapp/keyman/issues/1762>)
