---
title: nul
---

## Summary

The **`nul`** statement has two purposes: in the output of a rule, it
signifies deleting context and keystroke, and at the start of the
context it signifies that the context buffer in the application must be
empty (or no longer than the context of the rule) in order for the rule
to match.

## Syntax

``` keyman
nul [...] [+ key] > output
[...] [+ key] > nul
```

## Description

The `nul` statement will delete the context and key on the left hand
side of the rule from the output; it is equivalent to having an empty
output (which is not allowed). The `nul` statement probably will not be
used often, because there are not many times you would want to delete
the context and keystroke. The `nul` command must be the only character
or command on the right hand side of the rule.

`nul` can be used in the context in one special situation. It is used at
the start of the context to tell Keyman to find a match only if the
`nul` statement is before the start of the context buffer. For example,
you may use this to test if the user is typing a character at the start
of a paragraph, and use a different character in this situation.

Be careful when using `nul` in the context. In legacy environments, such
as many Windows applications, the context buffer will be empty after
cursor movement, menu access, or many other situations. This means that
the `nul` keyword may match in situations where you are not expecting
it, for example in the middle of a word.

In modern environments, such as touch devices, web keyboards, macOS, and
some modern Windows applications, the `nul` keyword will match at the
start of a text buffer, and nowhere else. For example, in Microsoft
Word, it will match at the start of the document, after a page, column
or section break, at the start of a header or footer, at the start of a
table cell and other similar situations.

## Note

If the context in a rule has both an [`if()` statement](if) and a `nul`
statement, then the `nul` statement must come first.

## Examples

### Example: Using `nul` on the right hand side of the context

This example will delete a visible Malayalam virama when a is typed.

``` keyman
U+0D4D + 'a' > nul
```

### Example: Using `nul` on the left hand side of the context

This example will capitalize a letter at the start of a buffer (hint:
this not really recommended!)

``` keyman
nul + 'a' > 'A'
```

## Platforms

The `nul` statement can be used in keyboards on all platforms.

| Windows | macOS | Linux | Desktop web | Mobile web | iOS | Android |
|---------|-------|-------|-------------|------------|-----|---------|
| ✔       | ✔     | ✔     | ✔           | ✔          | ✔   | ✔       |

## Version history

The `nul` statement was introduced in Keyman 3.0.

## See also

-   [`context` statement](../reference/context)
