# New Ways to Use Keyman

If you are an existing user of Keyman, you will notice that some parts
of the program have changed. This topic describes some of the new ways
you can or should access some of Keyman's features. These changes have
been implemented as part of enhancing how Keyman integrates with modern
versions of Windows.

Keyman Configuration no longer requires you to click the OK to save
changes. All changes are applied instantly.

Keyman keyboards are no longer hidden from the Windows language picker
when you exit Keyman. Rather, if you select a Keyman keyboard, Keyman
will be restarted for you automatically.

The key change in your usage will be how you access keyboard layouts.
With version 9.0 and later, all keyboard layouts are registered as
Windows Text Services, and are always available through Windows language
interfaces as well as with the [Keyman menu](#basic_traymenu), [language
switcher](#basic_languageswitcher) and [hotkeys](#basic_hotkeys_tab).

[???](#basic_enable_keyboard)

Most of the following changes were made in Keyman 10.0

When you install a keyboard layout, it will be registered under the
language for which the keyboard has been designed, or if this has not
been specified by the keyboard designer, then it will be installed under
your default language. You can always change the language registration
in the [Keyboards tab](#basic_keyboards_tab).

In earlier versions of Keyman, language association was controlled in
the Languages tab in Keyman Configuration. With the new model of
keyboard registration, all language association is controlled in the
Keyboards tab. Each keyboard can be associated with multiple languages.

The keyboard menu now shows all Windows languages and keyboards, and not
just Keyman keyboards. This reflects the tight integration with Windows
languages that Keyman 10+ provides.

You may be using a non-US hardware keyboard, which we call the Base
Layout. For example, you may be using a French, or German, or other
European Latin-script keyboard. You can change the base layout in the
Options tab, which will allow Keyman to automatically generate new
versions of your keyboards that adapt to your base layout.

**Other Minor Changes**

-   In the Support tab, we have reorganised the support and diagnostics
    links.

<!-- -->

-   The Addins tab has been eliminated as it is no longer required.

<!-- -->

-   A number of obsolete options have been removed.

<!-- -->

-   The proxy settings dialog is now accessed through the Options tab.

**Related Topics**

-   [???](#about_whatsnew)
