# HOWTO: Run Debugging in Keyman Desktop 

<p>Tavultesoft Support may ask you to run debugging in Keyman Desktop or Keyman Developer. The debug report assists us in resolving complex support issues. Please follow the steps below to generate the debug report.</p>

<ol>
   <li>Restart your computer.</li>
   <li>Start Keyman Desktop.</li>
   <li>Open the Options tab of Keyman Configuration.</li>
   <li>Tick 'Debugging' and click <button type='button'>OK</button> <button type='button'>OK</button> to confirm.</li>
   <li>Exit Keyman Desktop, Keyman Developer and any other Keyman Engine application installed on your computer.</li>
   <li>Restart Keyman Desktop.</li>
   <li>If necessary to demonstrate the problem, restart Keyman Developer or any other Keyman Engine application installed on your computer.</li>
   <li>Demonstrate the problem you are having.</li>
   <li>After the problem is sufficiently demonstrated, click the Pause button on your hardware keyboard (usually above the numberpad).  A dialog will be presented that will give you the opportunity to enter details about the issue.</li>
   <li>Feel free to write any notes to us about the issue.</li>
   <li>Untick 'Debugging' from the Options tab of Keyman Configuration.</li>
   <li>Restart Keyman Desktop.</li>
   <li>Email us a copy of your debug file(s). You'll find them, named system##.log (where ## is a number) in the <b>keymanlog</b> folder on your Windows desktop.</li>
</ol>
<p style='background:#eee; border:1px solid #ddd; margin:10px 0px 20px 0px; padding:2px;'><b>Please Note:</b><br/> <u><i>Everything</i></u> you type or click on your computer while running debugging will be visible (including passwords) when we review the debug files. We strongly recommend only running debugging during the test.</p>
