# HOWTO Install a file into the Keyman folder when creating a redistributable installer?

<p>
Files added to a redistributable installer package will normally be installed into the package path,
which is located within the Application Data folder hierarchy.  However, it is sometimes necessary to
include a file in the Keyman folder.
</p>
<h2>Solution</h2><p>

Yes, it is possible to put a file into the Keyman folder, by altering the .kps file manually &mdash; you can't 
do this within TIKE.  Add the file as normal to the list of files in the package, then save and close it 
within TIKE, and load it up in a text editor such as Notepad.  Locate the [Files] section, and within that
section, the file you wish to put into the Keyman folder.  Change the 0 at the end of the line to a 1, e.g:
</p>
<p>
<blockquote><pre>[Files]
0="Keyboard File","mykeyboard.kmx",0
1="Documentation","document.pdf",0
2="Custom Help Files","myhelp.chm",1</pre></blockquote>
</p>
<p>
Once you have made the change, as long as you don't remove the file from the package source list, you can
then continue to edit it within TIKE &mdash; TIKE won't overwrite the manual override you have done.
</p>
<p>
You can also set this value to 2 to make it available for use to the installer only &mdash; that is, it
would stay in the temp folder that the installer is extracted to.

</p>

## Applies to:
 * Keyman Developer Professional 6.0
 * Keyman Developer Professional 6.2
 * Keyman Developer Standard  6.0
 * Keyman Developer Standard 6.2
