# Tips for Multilingual use of MS Office 97/2000/XP

Thanks to Arun Sarkar of KAB Graphics for these tips.

<h2>MS Word 97</h2>
<ul>
<li />Do not select any options under 'Non Printing characters' in the View tab of Word Options.
<li />Disable all options in the Spelling and Grammar tab of Word Options. 
<li />Disable all the options under 'Auto Correct', 'Auto Format' and 'Auto Format as you type' in the AutoCorrect tab of Word Options. 
</ul>

<h2>MS Word 2000</h2>
<ul>
<li />Do not select any options under 'Formatting Marks' in the View tab of Word Options.
<li />Disable the 'Draft Font' option under 'Outline and Normal Options' in the View tab of Word Options. 
<li />Disable all options in the Spelling and Grammar tab of Word Options. 
<li />Disable all the options under 'Auto Correct', 'Auto Format' and 'Auto Format as you type' in the AutoCorrect tab of Word Options.
</ul>

<h2>MS PowerPoint 97/2000/XP</h2>
<ul>
<li />Disable all 'AutoCorrect/Check Spelling as you Type' options.
<li />Disable the 'Replace Straight quotes with Smart quotes' option in the Edit tab of PowerPoint Options.
</ul>

<h2>MS Access 97/2000/XP</h2>
<ul>
<li />Disable all 'AutoCorrect/Check Spelling as you Type' options.
</ul>

<h2>MS Excel 97/2000/XP</h2>
<ul>
<li />Disable all 'AutoCorrect/Check Spelling as you Type' options in Excel Options.
<li />Disable the 'Ask to update automatic links' option in the Edit tab of Excel Options.
<li />Enable the 'Auto Complete for cell values' option in the Edit tab of Excel Options.
<li />In Excel, the SCROLL LOCK key is used in conjunction with the arrow keys for scrolling through the worksheet. If you press an arrow key, the insertion point moves to the next cell in that direction. This may interfere with some keyboards and keyboard handlers that use SCROLL LOCK as an activation key.
</ul>
