# You receive a "Unable to copy file (filename) to (folder) - you may have insufficient privileges, or you may have run out of disk space" message when installing a keyboard

<h2>Symptoms</h2>

<p>When you install a keyboard or a package for Keyman Desktop 7.0, you may receive one of the following error messages:</p>

<blockquote>

<p style='color:red'>Unable to copy file <i>(filename)</i> for the package to <i>(path)</i> - you may have insufficient privileges, or you may have run out of disk space.</p>

<p style='color:red'>Unable to copy file <i>(filename)</i> to <i>(path)</i> - you may have insufficient privileges, or you may have run out of disk space.</p>

</blockquote>

<h2>Cause</h2>

<p>This error can occur when a corrupted keyboard installation has been left on the computer.</p>

<h2>Resolution</h2>

<p>To resolve this issue, you must delete the corrupted keyboard from your computer.  Take a note the <i>path</i> given in the error message.</p>

<ol>
<li>Click <b>Start</b> menu, <b>Run</b> (on Windows Vista, hold Windows key and press R)</li>
<li>Enter the path given in the error message and press OK.</li>
<li>In Explorer, navigate to the parent folder and delete the folder you originally navigated to.</li>
</ol>

<p>For instance, if the folder given was <b>C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Tavultesoft\Keyman Engine 7.0\Keyboard\Greek</b>, then you would delete the folder <b>Greek</b> and all its contents from the <b>C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Tavultesoft\Keyman Engine 7.0\Keyboard</b> folder.</p>


## Applies to:
 * Keyman Desktop Corporate 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop Light 7.0
 * Keyman Desktop Professional 7.0
